Dear all,

This year, I have moved from UK back to CH and needed to re-open a bank account to receive income. But what banks offer the "best" services? Personally, I look for very basic things:
  - A simple Swiss bank account to receive income
  - A Maestro with cashless option
  - Online / mobile banking
  - As low fees as possible
For all additional services I wish not to pay for. In the end, I will not use any extras (for investing I am using the cost-effective Interactive Brokers).

Previously, I have been with Zürcher Kantonalbank (ZKB) as well as UBS that offered accounts *free* of charge since I was a student + a few additional perks such as free use of the night trains / buses in Zurich and "Key club points" (a UBS reward scheme). While I would still think this offer is great for students, I cannot benefit from this anymore as a young professional who started to work. Both UBS as well as ZKB charge significant annual fees for holding an account (60 and 40 CHF /year, respectively). While this is not drastic, I think it is worth to make a fair comparison among banks to compare if you get the same service for less. This is what I have done and post here for your reference - and it turns out that changing banks is worth it! Extrapolating to 10 years, you can avoid 60 CHF * 10 = 600 CHF simply by going for a free provider (see below) and getting essentially the same service.

But before the comparison, I would like to shed a light on why banks provide free services to young adolescents / students. This principle is often referred to as a "bait" offering. You provide something for free early (e.g., when you are young), attract young customers with great offers (such as using the night trains /trams for free), and then charge afterwards. On the longterm, you are going to pay them high fees. The reason this is so widespread in banking is that people typically do not change banks. It is associated with effort such as you need to inform your employer to use a different IBAN for payments, maybe you have standing orders, you spend some time closing the old account and opening the new one etc. *People typically stick to their bank, even if their offering does not suit individual requirements!*. You might think "Hey, it is not that much and I don't want to bother", and this is what they bank on. Nevertheless, significant costs can be reduced when comparing the offering (and this is true for everything: From banks, insurances, flats and all sorts of things) and these costs do add up. I highly recommend doing some limited research to reduce these costs. In the end, it is also about promoting healthy competition: Why not reward innovation / better services? If everyone simply sticks to a service forever, there is little incentive to get better at all.

Now, find below a comparison table of bank providers. The clear winner for me is CLER bank!
I looked for the 10 largest banks and researched their principal costs (annual account fees, card fees and the like). I excluded Julius Bär as private bank, and see below the compiled list:

| Bank | No of employees | Account type | Annual account fees | Mandatory card fees | Opening costs | Interest rates | Other | Source|
| ------------- | ------------- |
| Content Cell  | Content Cell  |
| Content Cell  | Content Cell  |
